#summary Details of missions
back to [Contents]
=Missions=
==Intro Story==
In the last battle of the war between the Earth and an alien race of zombies, you are one of several pilots charged with Nova Bombs- bombs capable of causing a star to go nova.  The human invasion force is no match for the zombie home fleet, but manages to breach enough of a hole to allow you to launch your nova bomb.  The star is hit, and begins to explode- guaranteeing victory for earth and death for every ship in the system.  

Your ship takes a direct hit from a zombie vessel.  It takes out many of your systems, including your communications.  With your mission completed and no way to tell anyone, you pick the fastest vector out of the system and slam on the afterburners.  The nova shockwave catches up to your ship, knocks you out, and breaches your cockpit.  Zombie biocreep spreads over the crack, sealing it, and seeping inside-- and toward your body.

...adrift in space a hundred years later, new life regains consciousness.  With zombie infesting both your brain and your ship, it certainly isn't human anymore... but, with the zombie hive mind-- and its entire solar system-- destroyed, it isn't entirely alien, either.

==Human Missions==
Human ships will have a small chance to recognize the player as a Xenocite.  If they do, they will try to convince nearby ships.  Convinced ships will all attack the player.  The chance of being recognized will decrease as the player gains communication proficiency with Humans, but the chance of convincing others will increase.  The recognizing ships will claim to be veterans of the war (100+ years old!), to remember their dad's war stories, to have seen a documentary on the Xenocite, etc.  Unconvinced ships will most likely sit by and watch, but might fight on your side.  These encounters will give Human communication experience. 

Along with the encounters, there will be numerous missions to discover among the Human worlds.  There should be missions that expose the player to the surrounding races- the Archivists, the Protos, and the Children of the Stars.  A mission to escort colonists into Proto space will lead to a mission to defend colonists from Protos and introduce the conflict between humans and Protos. 

After a number of small missions helping random humans, military intelligence will try to hire you as a mercenary to help against the Protos.  There will be a number of missions against the Protos, leading up to the complete colonization of Proto space with Protos pinned into one 'preserve' around a moon.

If you successfully help the humans colonize all of Proto space, military intelligence will surround you, demanding to board your ship.  They will give a number of reasons with increasing forcefulness.  (a prompt will inform you that if they board your ship they will definitely identify you as a Xenocite.)  Eventually they will admit that they already know you are a Xenocite, and tell you that you can consent to experimental treatment to remove the Xenocite infestation or you can be destroyed by the overwhelming surrounding force.  If you consent, you will get a game over screen, then be allowed to continue playing with none of your skills.  If you fight, you will die, or be hunted through all human space unless/until you destroy the sun.

===Union Missions===
The Union will send you on missions throughout the Alliance.  They will include bringing messages to the Archivists, Benefactors, and uplifted (with varying receptions), engaging in diplomatic interactions with the Dramatics, independent systems, and (fruitlessly) the AI, defending the Alliance from Nanopirates and the Memoryless, and eventually helping attack and eliminate the Nanopirates.

===Archivist Missions===
===Benefactor Missions===
===Uplifted Missions===
===Nanopirate Missions===
===AI Missions===
===Dramatic Missions===
===Memoryless Missions===
===Tree Missions===
===Protos Missions===
===Children of the Stars Missions===
===Xenosite Missions===