#summary ideas about parts in the game.
back to [Contents]

GUNS

LASER:
- instant travel time
- damage near = energy used

PHASED SLAG
- phases on contact with shields.  Turns the torpedo to slag, but partially
    pierces shields.
   
RESONATORS
- extra damage to armor / non-shield

IONIC
- extra damage to shields
- tiny, high fire rate

ELECTRON STREAM
- extra damage to shields?
- static/disruption to ship?
- charges ship/jumps to neighbors?
- gives a ship energy, very high damage to ships with full batteries?

PROTON STREAM
- drains energy

NEUTRON
-increases mass for a time.

BULLETS

CONCUSIVE BULLETS
- reduce nanite effects

PIERCING BULLETS
- extra damage to pressurized ship parts (leaving good parts less damaged)?
more types that target specific parts of ships.
-thermal - engines
-destabilizer - batteries and generators
-
Missiles
Body types
GUIDED MISSILES
-home
UNGUIDED MISSILES
-don’t home.
BOMBS
-dumb missiles - mostly just follow inertia of ship/slight push.  can be mines.
Warhead types
-various malicious nanites with varying effects
-electron, proton, shrapnel (piercing), thermite (thermal), concussive as above.
-explosive, fission, fusion, anti-mater in increasing damage
-acid with damage over time
-
OTHER SYSTEMS
Cockpit / Pressurized hull
    -place where pilot lives
Engines
    -increase acceleration
Gyroturners
    -increase rotation rate
Hyperspace Engines
    -allow jumping between systems
Generators
    -recover energy
Batteries
    -increase max energy
Shields
    -increase max shields
Deflectors
    -push incoming bullets left or right
Nanite factories + nanites
    -many different effects.
Hulls
    -serve as connection points for parts
Turrets
    -configurable auto rotation for guns
Computers
    -automate actions or show HUD guides
    -maybe this should all be experience/skills
Fighter Bays + fighters
    -swarm enemies
Grappler
    -draws nearby parts/ships in
Armor
    -high HP, conveniently shaped pieces

Starting ship has
4 opposing engines -- 1?
gyro turner
small generator
cockpit with 1 extra expansion slot
small battery
small gun

no:
shields,

Flavor Text
ANTI-LASER:
Because lasers move at the speed of light, it is impossible to detect them before they hit.  However, laser damage is intensity times duration, and a microsecond laser pulse is still 300 meters long.  This system uses the front of a laser beam to predict the back.  Nanites align lenses to disperse the rest of the beam, reducing damage. \n\nDue to the time-delay, the effect of these systems is not cumulative.
Like all nanites, concusive damage can temporarily reduce proformance.
ANTI-LASER II
These anti-laser nanites not only disperse part of incoming laser beams, they collect the energy and route it to ship batteries.  [efficiency]% of the damage prevented is converted into energy. \n\nThe total energy produced from these systems can never exceed the damage reduced.
   